# The Future Phenomenon

A pale sky, over the world ending in decrepitude, is going perhaps to depart with the clouds: the tatters of the worn purple of sunsets bleed out in a river sleeping at the horizon, submerged in rays and water. The trees are bored; and, under their whitened foliage (from the dust of time rather than that of the roads), rises the canvas house of the Showman of things Past: many a streetlamp awaits the dusk and revives the faces of a wretched crowd, vanquished by the immortal sickness and the sin of centuries, of men beside their frail accomplices pregnant with the miserable fruits with which the earth will perish. In the anxious silence of all the eyes pleading over there where the sun, under the water, sinks with the despair of a cry, here is the simple pitch: "No sign regales you with the spectacle within, for there is not now a painter capable of giving even a sad shadow of it. I bring, alive (and preserved across the years by sovereign science) a Woman of the past. Some madness, original and naive, an ecstasy of gold, I know not what! named by her hair, folds with the grace of fabrics around a face illuminated by the bleeding nudity of her lips. In place of the futile garment, she has a body; and the eyes, like rare stones! are not worth that gaze which issues from her happy flesh: breasts raised firm as if full of an eternal milk, their tips toward the sky, and smooth legs that keep the salt of the first sea." Remembering their poor wives, bald, morbid and full of horror, the husbands press forward: they too, out of curiosity, melancholy, want to see.

When all have contemplated the noble creature, vestige of some epoch already accursed, some indifferent, for they will not have had the strength to understand, but others stricken and their eyelids moist with resigned tears, they will look at one another; while the poets of these times, feeling their extinguished eyes rekindle, will make their way toward their lamp, their brain drunk an instant with a confused glory, haunted by Rhythm and in the forgetting of existing in an epoch that has outlived beauty.
