# Autumn Lament

Since Maria left me to go to another star — which one, Orion, Altair; or you, green Venus? — I have always cherished solitude. How many long days I have spent alone with my cat. By *alone*, I mean without a material being, and my cat is a mystical companion, a spirit. I can therefore say that I have spent long days alone with my cat, and, alone, with one of the last authors of the Latin decadence; for since the white creature is no more, strangely and singularly I have loved everything that summed itself up in this word: fall. Thus, in the year, my favorite season is those last languid days of summer that immediately precede autumn, and in the day the hour when I take my walk is when the sun rests before vanishing, with rays of yellow copper on the grey walls and red copper on the windowpanes. Likewise the literature to which my spirit turns for a sad voluptuousness will be the dying poetry of the last moments of Rome, so long, however, as it in no way breathes the rejuvenating approach of the Barbarians and does not stammer the childish Latin of the first Christian proses.

I was reading, then, one of those dear poems (whose patches of rouge charm me more than the blush of youth) and plunging a hand into the fur of the pure animal, when a barrel organ sang languishing and melancholy beneath my window — it played in the great alley of poplars whose leaves seem yellow to me even in spring, since Maria passed that way with candles, one last time. The instrument of the sad, yes, truly: the piano sparkles, the violin opens the torn soul to the light, but the barrel organ, in the twilight of memory, made me desperately dream. Now that it murmured a cheerfully vulgar tune, one that put gaiety in the heart of the faubourgs, a dated tune, banal: how was it that its refrain sent me to dream and made me cry like a romantic ballad? I savored it slowly and I did not throw a sou from the window for fear of disturbing myself and perceiving that the instrument was not singing alone.
