# An Interrupted Performance

How far civilization is from procuring the pleasures attributable to this state! one must be astonished, for example, that an association between dreamers, residing there, does not exist in every great city, to subsidize a newspaper that would notice events in the light proper to dream. Artifice that *reality*, good for fixing the middling intellect among the mirages of a fact; but it rests for all that on some universal understanding: let us see then whether there is not, in the ideal, a necessary aspect, evident, simple, which serves as a type. I mean, with myself alone in view, to write as it struck my poet's gaze, this Anecdote, before the *reporters* divulge it to the crowd trained to assign to each thing its common character.

The little theater of PRODIGALITIES joined to its fairy-play *Beauty and the Beast* the exhibition of a living cousin of Atta Troll or of Martin; I had, recognizing the invitation of the complimentary ticket that had strayed to my house the day before, placed my hat in the vacant stall beside me, an absence of a friend testifying to the general taste for avoiding this naive spectacle. What was happening before me? nothing, except that: pale evasive muslin figures taking refuge on twenty pedestals in the architecture of Baghdad emerged, a smile and open arms, from the sad heaviness of the bear: while the hero, of those sylphs the evoker and their keeper, a clown, in his tall silver nudity, mocked the animal by our superiority. To enjoy as the crowd does the myth contained in all banality, what repose and, without neighbors where to pour out reflections, to see the ordinary and splendid vigil found at the footlights by my sated research of imaginations and symbols. A stranger to many a reminiscence of such evenings, the accident, the newest! aroused my attention: one of the numerous salvos of applause awarded according to the enthusiasm at the illustration on stage of the authentic privilege of Man, came, broken by what? to a clean stop, with a fixed crash of glory at its apogee, unable to spread. All ears, one had to be all eyes. At the gesture of the puppet, a palm clenched in the air opening its five fingers, I understood that he had, the ingenious one! captured the sympathies by the mime of catching on the wing some thing, figure (and this is all) of the ease by which everyone grasps an idea: and that moved by a light breeze, the bear rhythmically and gently raised was interrogating this exploit, one paw placed on the ribbons of the human shoulder. No one breathed, so much did this situation carry grave consequences for the honor of the race: what was going to happen? The other paw fell, supple, against an arm running along the leotard; and one saw, couple united in a secret rapprochement, like an inferior man, squat, good, standing on the spread of two hairy legs, straining to learn the practices of genius, and his black skull reaching only to the waist, the bust of his brilliant and supernatural brother: but who, him! raised up, the mouth mad with vagueness, a head of hair — an awful chief agitating by a visible thread in the horror the veritable denials of a fly of paper and gold. A clear spectacle, vaster than the trestles, with this gift, proper to the things of art, of lasting long: to perfect it I let, without being offended by the attitude probably fatal taken by the mime — depositary of our pride — tacitly spring forth, forbidden to the offspring of arctic regions, the discourse: "Be good (this was the sense), and rather than lack charity, explain to me the virtue of this atmosphere of splendor, of dust and of voice, where you taught me to move. My request, pressing, is just, for you do not seem, in an anguish that is not feigned; flung to the regions of wisdom, subtle elder! to me, to set you free, still clothed from the formless sojourn of the caverns where I plunged back, into the night of humble epochs, my latent force. Let us authenticate, by this tight embrace, before the multitude sitting to this end, the pact of our reconciliation." The absence of any breath joined to space, in whatever absolute place I was living, one of the dramas of astral history was choosing, to produce itself, this modest theater! The crowd was fading, entirely, into the emblem of its spiritual situation magnifying the scene: dispenser of modern ecstasy, alone, with the impartiality of an elementary thing, the gas, in the heights of the hall, continued a luminous noise of expectation.

The spell broke: it was when a piece of flesh, naked, brutal, crossed my vision directed from the interval of the scenery, in advance by a few instants on the reward, mysterious after these ordinary performances. A rag substituted bleeding beside the bear who, its instincts recovered earlier from a curiosity higher than the theatrical radiance it had been endowed with, fell back on all fours and, as though carrying away with it the Silence, went in the stifled tread of the species to sniff, in order to sink its teeth into it, this prey. A sigh, almost free of disappointment, relieved incomprehensibly the assembly: whose lorgnettes, by rows, searched, polishing their lenses, for the play of the splendid imbecile evaporated in his fear; but they saw a meal abject perhaps preferred by the animal — for it would first have had to make of it *our image*, in order to taste it. The curtain, hesitating until then as the danger or the emotion grew, suddenly brought down its newspaper of prices and commonplaces. I rose like everyone else, to go outside and breathe, astonished not to have felt, this time again, the same kind of impression as my fellows, but serene: for my way of seeing, after all, had been superior, and even the true one.
