# The Ecclesiastic

Springs push the organism to acts which, in another season, are unknown to it, and many a treatise of natural history abounds in descriptions of this phenomenon, in animals. It would be of a more plausible interest to gather certain of the alterations that the climatic instant brings to the bearing of individuals made for spirituality! Badly quit, by the irony of winter, I retain, as for myself, an equivocal state so long as an absolute or naive naturalism does not substitute itself there, capable of pursuing a pleasure in the differentiation of several blades of grass. Nothing in the present case bringing profit to the crowd, I escape, to meditate on it, under some shadows surrounding from yesterday the city: now it is their mystery, almost banal, that I shall exhibit as a striking and graspable example of spring inspirations.

Keen was my surprise, just then, in a little-frequented corner of the Bois de Boulogne, at my dark, low agitation when I saw, through the thousand interstices of shrubs good for concealing nothing, total and from the superior beatings of the tricorne animated down to the shoes fastened by silver buckles, an ecclesiastic, who apart from witnesses was responding to the solicitations of the grass. It did not please me (and nothing of the kind serves providential designs) that, guilty in equal measure of a falsely scandalized man seizing a pebble from the path, I should threaten with even my smile of intelligence a blush on the face of this poor man, hands covering it, other than the one no doubt found in his solitary exercise! Quick of foot, I had to, so as not to cause by my presence a distraction, use address; and strongly against the temptation of a backward glance, to figure in my mind the almost diabolical apparition that continued to rustle the renewal against its sides, to the right, to the left and of the belly, obtaining a chaste frenzy. Everything, to rub or fling the limbs, to roll, to slide, ended in a satisfaction: and to stop, forbidden the tickle of some tall flower stem on its black-stockinged calves, among this special robe worn with the appearance that one wears for oneself alone, one's wife. Solitude, cold silence sparse in the greenery, perceived by senses less subtle than those you disturb, you knew the furious snappings of a fabric; as if the night buried in its folds were at last shaken free! and the muffled collisions against the earth of the rejuvenated skeleton; but the madman had not you to contemplate. Hilarious, it was enough to seek in oneself the cause of a pleasure or perhaps of a duty, ill explained by a return, before a lawn, to the gambols of the seminary. The influence of the vernal breath gently dilating the immutable texts inscribed in his flesh, he too, emboldened by this agreeable trouble to his sterile thought, had come to acknowledge by a contact with Nature, immediate, clear, violent, positive, stripped of all intellectual curiosity, the general well-being; and candidly, far from obediences and the constraint of his occupation, the canons, the interdictions, the censures, he rolled, in the beatitude of his native simplicity, happier than a donkey. That the goal of his walk, be it straight and of one thrust, achieved not without shaking the pistils and wiping the saps attached to his person, the hero of my vision, to return, unperceived, into the crowd and the habits of his ministry, I do not dream of denying; but I have the right not to consider it. Has not my discretion toward debates first glimpsed been rewarded in fixing forever, like a passerby's reverie pleased to complete it, the image marked with the mysterious seal of modernity, at once baroque and beautiful?
