# Glory

"Glory! I knew it only yesterday, irrefragable, and nothing will interest me in being called thus by anyone.

"A hundred posters assimilating the misunderstood gold of days, treason of the letter, have fled, as to the very confines of the city, my eyes level with the horizon dragged along the rail by a departure before gathering themselves into the abstruse pride that the approach of a forest gives in its season of apotheosis.

"So much discord in the exaltation of the hour, a cry falsified this name known for deploying the continuity of treetops late vanished, Fontainebleau, that I thought, the glass of the compartment violated, to throttle the interrupter by the fist as well as by the throat: Be quiet! Do not divulge by the fact of an indifferent bark the shadow here insinuated in my spirit, at the doors of wagons beating under an inspired and egalitarian wind, the omnipresent tourists vomited. A deceitful quietude of rich woods suspends all around some extraordinary state of illusion, what do you answer me? that they have, these travelers, for your station today left the capital, good vociferous employee through duty and of whom I expect, far from cornering an intoxication shared by all departure through the liberalities conjoined of Nature and of the State, nothing but a silence prolonged the time to isolate myself from the urban delegation toward the ecstatic torpor of those leaves down there too long immobilized lest a crisis soon scatter them into the air; here, without affront to your integrity, take, a coin.

"An inattentive uniform inviting me toward some barrier, I hand over without a word, in place of the suborning metal, my ticket.

"Obeyed though, yes, only to see the asphalt spread cleanly with no footsteps, for I cannot still imagine that in this pompous and exceptional October! of the million existences staging their emptiness insofar as a monotony enormous as a capital is about to efface itself here at the hiss of a whistle under the fog, not one furtively escaped that has not felt what it is, this year, of bitter and luminous sobs, many an indecisive flotation of idea deserting the chances like branches, that shiver and what makes one think of an autumn under the skies.

"No one and, arms of doubt flung wide as who also carries a lot of secret splendor, too inappreciable a trophy to appear! but without immediately dashing into this diurnal vigil of immortal trunks at the pouring out upon one of superhuman prides (for must not one verify the authenticity?) nor crossing the threshold where torches are consumed, in a high guard, all anterior dreams reverberating in purple their brilliance in the bare universal sacring of the royal intruder who will have had but to come: I waited, to exist, that slow and taken again by the ordinary movement, it should reduce to the proportions of a puerile chimera carrying away from the world some part, the train that had deposited me there alone."
